Revise Search Operations section (#769)
Macrometacorp/docs: docs/search/operations.md

title: Search Queries
---

> You can use the `SEARCH` keyword to filter a query using a search view, providing these features:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the `SEARCH` keyword to filter a query using a search view, allowing you to:
```

> - Filter documents based on C8QL Boolean expressions and functions.

Reviewer: C8QL and SQL?

- Match documents located in different collections.

> - Sort the result set based on how closely each document matched the search conditions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Sort the result set based on how closely each document matches the search conditions.
```

Refer to [Search Views](/search/views/index.md) for information about creating a custom search view.

> You must use the `SEARCH` statement in a `FOR...IN` operation. The `SEARCH` statement must be placed after the `FOR` and before any additional operations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Syntax

You must use the `SEARCH` statement in a `FOR...IN` operation. The `SEARCH` statement must be placed after the `FOR` and before any additional operations.
```

title: Search Queries
---

You can use the `SEARCH` keyword to filter a query using a search view, allowing you to:

- Filter documents based on C8QL Boolean expressions and functions.
- Match documents located in different collections.
- Sort the result set based on how closely each document matches the search conditions.

Refer to [Search Views](/search/views/index.md) for information about creating a custom search view.

## Syntax

You must use the `SEARCH` statement in a `FOR...IN` operation. The `SEARCH` statement must be placed after the `FOR` and before any additional operations.

```sql
FOR doc IN <SEARCH_VIEW_NAME>
  SEARCH <EXPRESSION> OPTIONS {…}
  ...
```

For example:

```sql
FOR doc IN MySearchView
  SEARCH ANALYZER(doc.text == "quick" OR doc.text == "brown", "text_en")
RETURN doc
```

Replace `SEARCH_VIEW_NAME` with the name of your search view, and `EXPRESSION` with one of the following [Search functions](functions.md):

> 

Reviewer 2: AND, OR ... are logical and comparison operators; they are not Search functions. PHRASE STARTSWITH() ... are Search functions

- `!=`
- `IN` (array or range), also `NOT IN`

> `SEARCH` does not support:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Limitations

`SEARCH` does not support:
```

- Alphabetical order
- Array comparison operators
- In-line expressions

Refer to [Search Options](#search-options) for information about the `OPTIONS` keyword.

## Search by Document Attribute

> You can search for documents by querying document attributes that have been indexed by both the search view and the document store. Refer to [Document Store Indexes](/collections/documents/document-store-indexes.md) for more information about adding attributes to document store indexes.

Reviewer: Test this link, it looks wrong.

ANALYZER(doc.text[2] == 'jump', "text_en")
```

> 

Reviewer: Remove extra empty lines.

## SEARCH with SORT

> The documents emitted from a View can be sorted by attribute values with the standard [SORT() operation](../queries/c8ql/operations/sort.md), using one or multiple attributes, in ascending or descending order (or a mix thereof).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The documents emitted from a search view can be sorted by attribute values with the standard [SORT() operation](../queries/c8ql/operations/sort.md), using one or multiple attributes, in ascending or descending order (or a mix thereof).
```

- `collections` (array, _optional_): array of strings with collection names to restrict the search to certain source collections

> Given a View with three linked collections `coll1`, `coll2` and `coll3` it is possible to return documents from the first two collections only and ignore the third using the `collections` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Given a search view with three linked collections (`coll1`, `coll2`, and `coll3`), you can return documents from the first two collections only and ignore the third using the `collections` option:
```
